rrnsi· noorr. ⁶9

89-112. The Golden Age.
89. Aurea: the names oi the metals, beginning with the most

precious, are used simply to show the relative value of the ages.
While Ovid gives tour periods, other poets vary the number, as
Hesiod, live; Aratus, three3 and Vergil, two-vindice nullo:
translate the ablative absolute by without.

aa. aere: laws with the penalties tor disobedience were engraved
on bronze tablets and set up in the iorum or other public place;
as, for example, the laws ol the Twelve Tables-supplex turba:
the accused, with his friends, implored mercy from the judge. '

⁹³· erant: people.

94. cem, on account ol its ending, can be joined with no word
until pinus is read. Although mesa, auis, peregrinum are followed
in inverse order by orbem, montibus, and pinus, there is no ambi·
guity on account ol the inflectional endings.-orbem: for a part oi
the world, as in English.

96. norant: from nosco.

97. nondum: notice nouat the beginning oi each clause.

ror. ipsa: attention is attracted by its long separation from
tellus.

roa. per ae: equivalent to sponte suo.

106. Jovia arbore: the oalr was sacred to Jupiter and in the
southern countries bore acorns that were suitable for iood.

roo. sine semine: without any one's sowing the seed,

no. nec: equivalent to et non ; the et connects the clauses and
>son modifies renovatus. -canebatz with long a.

ιιι. numina: compare Exodus lll.8 ; the giits of the land can be
had in abundante (flumina), and also with ease (stillabant). ¹

¹¹3·¹2⁴· The Siloer Age.

'' ¹¹³· Saturno: Saturn was an old Italian deity. lle was identi-
fied with the Greek Cronus, the son oi Uranus and Gaea, and was
therefore called the father oi Jupiter, Neptune, Pluto, Juno, Ceres,
and Vesta. He was overthrown and put down into the lower world
byrris sons.

114. Jove: the reahn ol Saturn was divided by lot. Jupiter
obtained the heavens and the earth and the real leadershlp, Neptune

 

