viii rwrnooucrrow.

his exile. The principal works written during his banish·
ment were the Tristia, consisting ol five books, and the
Epistulae cx Ponto, ot four. Both are elegiae poems and
either tell of his sorrowtul‘condition, or contain prayers
ior his deliverance. His Autobiography is the tenth elegy
ol the fourth book ol the Trr'stia

The Metamorphoses, written in the dactylic‚ or heroic,
verse and almost an heroic poem in matter as well as in
torm, comprising about twelve thousand lines in fifteen
books, is his most extensive and most important work.
It is the great storehouse in the Latin language of Greek
myth and legend. The ancients, intimate with nature and
wondering at her mysteries‚ often felt that man or god
was concealed beneath her visible appearance. Ovid
gathers together the marvelous stories ot the changes of
man or god to other forms and, combining with thern the
accounts oi natural phenomena and poetic legend, forms
one continuous song from the creation of the world to the
change ol Julius Caesar to a star. The stories are joined
together with great skill, for though the poet apparently
follows an order of time, yet a suggestion ot name, or
character, or change easily and naturally leads him to
another myth. This will be clearly shown by an analysis
ol the first and second books.

The first book comprises the story ot the change hom
chaos to an orderly world and the formation oi man ς’ the
tour ages ot deteriorati0n; the wickedness of man, and

especially of Lycaon, who was changed to a wolT; the
destruction ol mankind by the flood; the saving ot Deuca-
lion and Pyrrha, by whom the race was restored from the'

 

